Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're going to finish off our discussion of basic data types and
data structures of Python by talking about tuples sets and booleans.
They're all kind of minor smaller topics so we're going to link them all together in this one single
lecture.
So Let's first discuss each one and then we'll head over to the Adam code editor and check them allow
OK we have tuples So what are tuples.
Tuples are actually very similar to lists.
However they have one key difference and that is immutability.
So remember with Lisse you can mutate or change elements that are already inside of the list.
Tuples pretty much operate the exact same way as far as an ordered sequence except that they're immutable.
Once an element is assigned inside a tuple it cannot be reassigned.
And the difference in syntax is that instead of using square brackets tuples are going to use parentheses.
So here we can see an example of a tuple holding three items one two and three.
Notice it looks a lot like lists except instead of square brackets we have princes there.
Main difference here is immutability.
So when you are objects not to be changed within an ordered sequence tuples are a good way to go that
we have sets sets are an order collections of unique elements.
So what do we mean by unique.
That means there can only be one representative object of the same kind of objects.
So we're going to see some examples of that later on in the text editor but just keep in mind sets there
an order collections of unique elements and then finally booleans the last to discuss and booleans are
just operators that lights convey true or false statements.
And these are really important later on when we deal control flow and logic.
So let's learn about these three data types tuples sets and booleans.
Let's head over the atom.
OK.
And to start off by talking about tuples so tuples they look a lot like a list except they're going
to use parentheses.
So we're going to make a tuple of one two three and then I'm going to print out the tuple itself and
you can use indexing just like you would for a list.
So if I wanted to grab the first item in the tuple I would just say t of 0.
So save this and run it.
And here we have the entire tuple and then the first item in the table.
And just like lists that can actually have mixed data types so we can have the floating point number
a letter string.
All that's fine tuples not going to complain.
Remember with a list I could do some sort of re-assignment.
So I'm going to show you that there an example.
I'm going to say my list.
Square brackets One two three.
And let's just make the tuple again one two three.
So a full list I was able to grab the first item in this fashion and then set it equal to something
new.
Now you're going to notice if I print out my list that it's not going to complain about that.
So we already learned this from The Last Lecture.
If I run this code now I get back new to 3.
So I can easily do a re-assignment.
That means lists are mutable.
Let's try the same thing with the tuple though.
So I'm going to try t of 0 set it equal to.
So let's try to get this one equal to you and then I'm going to print out my tuple.
See.
So what happens when we try running this.
You actually get back an error that says tuple object does not support item assignment.
Remember this is a really similar error we got back when we were working with strings.
So tuples are really similar to lists as far as slicing and indexing goes.
But you can't do the re-assignment.
So you typically want to use tuples when you want something set in position not to be edited by a third
party user.
So things like calendar dates are always going to come in the same order and you don't want someone
to just come in and change the 7th of the date to maybe the tenth.
So that kind of thing.
Tuples are a good choice as we learn more and more about Python flask.
We'll start to see natural use cases for tuples.
Often beginners start using lists and then later on when they start dealing with other people using
their code.
They begin to graduate to using tuples.
OK.
So we discuss tuples and a some people call and tipples as well.
Keep that in mind.
Now we're going to talk about sets and booleans.
OK so sets are an unordered collection of unique elements.
I'm going to create a set by saying x is equal to set open in close print C's and then if I just print
the X.
You'll notice right now when I run it.
Because the back and empty set.
Now let's try adding an item to that set.
So the way we do that is we say X add and then I'm going to add on the number 1 to the set and then
let's print out the resulting set after that which is x.
So when I run this now I get back this sort of notation it uses curly braces very similar to a dictionary
except notice now there's no key value pairs.
It's just items inside of the set.
So let's add one more.
In fact let's do this before we print.
We're going to add two and then we're going to add three.
Save those.
Run this and I get back.
One two three in my set.
So set syntax wise is curly braces with each item separated by a comma.
So what's the big deal here.
Well let's try adding theory again and in fact let's added a bunch of times going to say add one add
two and then add three three times.
The key here remember is that sets are an order collection of unique elements.
So when I try to run that I get back the exact same result.
One two three because three is already represented because it's already the single representation of
that unique element.
So you can't be adding more representations of that same element and so that only takes unique elements.
So that's how a set works.
And because a set works this way you can easily get back the unique values of A list by passing it through
the set function.
Let me show you how that works.
I'm going to create a list called 1 to 1 2.
This is to make a bunch of repeated numbers here.
So some of them are repeated some of them messed up.
So let's go back and fill these in.
There we go.
So just create kind of a list of random numbers here.
But make sure some of them are repeated so twos or repeated ones are repeated and so on.
And then if you want to get back the unique numbers where you can do is you can say set passen that
list and then print out that result.
So we're going to say set my list save this and run it and notice now we get back a set of all the unique
elements 1 2 3 4 12 and 21.
So that's a really useful use case for the set function able to easily grab only two unique elements
from a list.
And later on we'll learn about more use cases for sets.
Typically these are going to be kind of more advanced use cases.
So right now as a beginner you won't really be using sets that often.
Finally I want to talk about booleans sibilance we're going to talk about this in a lot more detail
when we discuss control flow.
So let's take a look at these booleans.
Basically it's either true or false.
So you can say a is equal to and then I have to make sure it's a capital T.
In order for it to be the true keyword.
So if I print out a here it's going to show me true.
So true.
Notice if I try a lower case t I end up getting an error saying something like true is not the.
A truth is not defined.
So you have to make sure that it's a capital T.
In order for that true boolean and likewise there's a false Boolean.
So if you want things to be false you can set B equal to capital F false.
And the third one I wanna to talk about is a placeholder called none.
So that's another special key word which are going to see it later on.
But essentially you can use that as a placeholder for an object that you don't want to reassign yet.
So these are booleans.
True and False.
And then none.
That's basically kind of a special keyword which we're going to see later on in the course.
We're not going to use it immediately but I just want to introduce it now since it's kind of similar
to the booleans ideas.
Now why are booleans useful.
True and False.
They're going to be useful when we start learning about control flow and we will only want certain blocks
of code to execute when something is true or when something is false.
Now we're going to learn about comparison operators later on.
But basically those are things like is one greater than two.
So if I print out the result of that I get back false.
One is not greater than two.
And if I do the reverse is one less than two and I run that I'm going to get back.
True.
So right after your exercise lecture It's coming up next we're going to discuss comparison operators
in a lot more detail.
So right now as far as tuples sets and booleans are concerned this is just an introduction to those
terms.
The actual implementation and use cases of those kind of things are going to be seen much further along.
So I just want to introduce them to kind of close off this discussion on data types and data structures.
All right I think we've learned enough so that you can get some exercise and testing new skills.
So let's go ahead and jump to the next lecture.
We're going to show you the quick overview of your exercise assignment.
We'll see you there.